welcome back to movie recaps today i
will show you a post-apocalyptic zombie
movie from 2016
titled the girl with all the gifts
spoilers ahead watch out and take care
melanie is lying in bed as the lights in
her cell come on
she gets up and starts preparing for
school two soldiers come in and she
greets them happily
but the only thing they care about is
securing her to the wheelchair
they will her out in the hallway getting
her in a line with other children like
her
melanie and the others are placed in a
classroom positioned by numbers
melanie asks the teacher miss justino to
tell them a story and proposes she reads
them a myth
so that it could count as history the
teacher complies reluctantly and reads
them the myth of pandora's box
after class melanie is taken back to her
cell where the two edgy soldiers refuse
to greet her good night
later she's given dinner the serving is
a plate full of worms
she falls asleep as she eats the next
day melanie gets a visit from dr
caldwell
the girl has solved a riddle the doctor
had given her so she gives her a new one
explaining that it's a logic problem she
asks her to solve the problem of
schrodinger's cat
when melanie can't answer the doctor
writes something down concerning her
behavior and reads it back to her
calling her a subject lastly the doctor
asks melanie for a number and she
replies with 13.
later the soldiers pick her up and the
other children for school again
as melanie is being wheeled past the
numbered cells she sees that number 13
hasn't been opened
when she gets to the classroom the same
numbered place remains empty
the teacher decides to give them a
writing assignment for that particular
class and the children are worried that
they wouldn't know what story to tell
melanie is the only one writing a longer
one in her notebook
so when the teacher asks for someone to
read it loud what they wrote
she quickly raises her hand she depicts
herself as the savior and hero in her
writing
the teacher gets overwhelmed by the
story and goes over to melanie
wanting to touch her suddenly sergeant
parks burst inside the classroom and
screams that touching the children is
forbidden
he wants to give justino a reminder of
why that's the case
so he walks up to one of the children
and rolls his sleeve bringing his arm
close to it
the child sniffs him and unhinges its
jaw wanting to bite him
the other children mimic the same
behavior after the class
sergeant parks walks into melanie's cell
as the others are getting ready to take
off her restraints
the girl antagonizes him so he leaves
her restrained to the chair
the same night justino goes to see
melanie and when she realizes that she
has been left like that
she walks into the cell and starts
taking off the restraints
the girl gets a sniff of the teacher's
scent and starts turning like the other
children
before melanie turns completely she
tells the teacher to get out
later that night dr caldwell comes to
visit her again
they chat and she asks the girl for
another number melanie answers with the
number four
which is the same number as her own cell
the following morning
sergeant parks comes in to get melanie
he gets her out of the cell and inside
of an elevator
he wheels her out of the facility as
gunshots are hurt all around
soldiers are seen running and shooting
toward the fence of the military complex
melanie is confused by the sight as
parks wheels her to another part of the
complex and takes her in a laboratory
where dr caldwell is waiting
she asks the girl about schroedinger's
cat but when she doesn't get the
response she wants
she explains that the cat in the box is
both alive and dead
just like melanie a second doctor
injects a sedative in her arm
instantly knocking her out they move her
to a slab and restrain her
but she quickly wakes up justino runs
inside to stop the doctor from cutting
up melanie
after a few other promising words she
convinces the teacher to put her weapon
down and immediately pepper sprays her
incapacitating her so the soldiers can
arrest her
she explains to her that she isn't just
cutting melanie up but is using her as a
source for a vaccine
justino is taken away an alarm start
blaring caldwell tells the other doctor
to drop the shutters
but as she does that a zombie breaks
trough the glass biting her relentlessly
caldwell kills the zombies cutting her
own hand in the process
the other doctor starts turning
completely but she escapes the lab just
in time
melanie is left alone in the lab with a
zombie though it doesn't touch her
the girl grabs a scalpel and frees
herself from the restraints
melody walks outside to find complete
chaos in the complex
zombies running around attacking
soldiers as they try to shoot them down
suddenly she sees justino getting beat
up by the soldiers
enraged she runs toward them attacks and
bites them
eventually killing them both before
passing out justina waits to find
melanie beside her
picks her up and gets her inside a
military vehicle the zombies completely
take over the complex
as the vehicle is seen leaving followed
by a hurt
sometime later it stops in the middle of
nowhere as parks and kieran realize that
melanie is in the back of the vehicle
with them
justino lets the girl out as caldwell
screams that doing that is not her
decision to make
melanie runs just a little way off from
the vehicle and stops
clearly seeing the outside for the first
time the others stay by the vehicle
trying to radio to other outposts to no
avail
as the doctor tells them to retrieve her
test subject
parks kieran and caldwell check the
vehicle for supplies
but find no water or food just a mask
used to retrieve zombies the sergeant
makes a plan to go south to beacon
assuming everyone back at the complex is
dead except the zombie children
they put melanie on the gunner's seat of
the vehicle strapped in and masked
and make their way to a river to get
water when they arrived there a few
zombies find them prompting a shootout
with the soldiers
one of the soldiers gets bitten in the
fight so parks waits a moment to see if
he'll turn and when the process starts
he shoots him closing the doors of the
vehicle he realizes that justino has
brought melanie in with them
which makes him terribly nervous the
girl asked about the zombies and
caldwell explains that they were people
infected with a fungus
transmitted through biting when parks
goes to start the vehicle
he realizes that it's busted and that
they would have to go on foot through
london
a quicker but more dangerous route parks
and kieran survey the perimeter which
they would have to cross
it's filled with zombies they inform the
others that there is no alternative but
to pass trough the zombies and find
shelter and supplies once they're inside
the city
the group walks between a mass of
sleeping zombies careful not to wake
them
suddenly park stops when they reach a
dead end a zombie mother pushes a baby
cart toward them and caldwell goes up to
her
making her stop she sees the baby move
in the cart and checks it
only to find a rat inside she yelps
waking the zombie mother first and then
the others
the group manages to escape and moves
through the zombie-filled streets of the
city
eventually finding an abandoned hospital
and going inside
parks finds an opening to another floor
and they all climb up
where they will be much safer parks
justino and kieran immediately go on
patrol while caldwell and melanie stay
back
as they're left alone the girl asks
where she came from
the doctor explains that her and others
like her were found on a maternity ward
in a hospital
they were the children of mothers who
got infected with the fungus while they
were still pregnant
so the infection got in their system
through the placenta caldwell tells her
that they were different than the other
zombies
able to think and react almost like real
people
later justinio returns giving melanie
new clothes she found for her and
apologizing that she didn't find any
food
that night park and justino talk about
melanie and he tells her that the girl
loves her
meanwhile kieran is guarding the girl
and she bonds with him as well
the next morning they notice that more
zombies have gathered in front of the
hospital
they have no way out but melanie comes
up with an idea
since the zombies won't attack her she
convinces them to let her go outside and
find a way to move the zombies away from
the building
caldwell doesn't like the plan but
without an alternative plan
the others agree before she leaves
melanie asks to put on her new clothes
she goes outside and passes the zombies
without trouble
suddenly she sees a cat hunts it down
and eats it raw
later she goes into a house and finds a
little dog
when she comes back she uses it as a
decoy for the zombies
getting them all away from the hospital
parks puts the mask and the handcuffs
back on and they continue the journey
trough the abandoned city headed for
beacon
on their way they see something strange
the fungus growing out of the bodies of
the zombies
something the doctor thinks is the next
stage in the life cycle of the fungus
she then tells melanie that in her case
the fungus works more as a symbiote than
a parasite like in the others
going deeper in the city they find a
huge mass of bodies growing into a
massive fungus
that caldwell suspects is the reason why
no walking zombies are around
when enough of them come together they
transform into the mature stage of the
fungus that can pollinate larger areas
if not the entire world on their way
they suddenly find a mobile laboratory
they get inside the vehicle and start
looking traffic park tries the engine
first and then the radio
no response kieran leaves on a supply
run and melanie is getting uneasy
like she's about to turn she tells them
that she needs to eat too and they let
her out to hunt
she finds her food fast and tears right
through it when she's done eating
she hears a strange sound and follows it
to a bookstore
she peeps trough and sees a group of
children communicating with grunts
melanie understands that they are just
like her when suddenly one of them comes
inside and tells the others that he has
smelled something
they all follow him out back at the
mobile lab
caldwell is getting sicker and informs
justina that she has sepsis
then she starts talking about melanie
again and how she needs her brain and
spine to make the vaccine
much to justino's displeasure suddenly
melanie returns and tells them about the
children she saw
convinced that they will hunt for kieran
he's seen walking down a street and
suddenly finding an unopened can on the
ground and then another one
until he sees a store and crawls under
the shutter to get in
once inside he starts eating and looking
trough dirty magazines
a little girl appears behind him
startling him she lures him between the
rafters of the store and momentarily
more children appear
when their leader joins them they all
attack kieran together
meanwhile melanie is leading parks and
justino to him
she can smell him like the other kids
did they finally arrive at the store
go inside and find kieran half-eaten
melanie realizes that the children
didn't just set a trap for him
but for them as well they go outside and
see that she was right
the group of kids is waiting for them
melanie challenges the leader and fights
with him
when she kills him to prove to the
others that she is the strongest she's
able to protect parks and justino and
lead them back to safety
they arrive at the lab to see that the
door is open when they walk inside
caldwell sedates them with some kind of
gas she pulls melanie toward the slab to
perform her procedure
but stops because she's in terrible pain
from her hand
she turns around for a moment to fix it
but when she turns back around melanie
is already conscious and alert
they talk and she tries to convince the
girl to give herself up
so that she can save everyone with her
vaccine melanie almost agrees
but asks one last question she wants to
know if the doctor thinks she's alive or
just mimicking human behavior
caldwell answers with the former then
the girl says
why should we die to save you melanie
runs out leaving the doctor in the lab
but she follows her
lagging behind melanie with no gun or
protection caldwell is immediately
surrounded by the zombie children
meanwhile the girl goes to the huge
fungus they found before
she sets it on fire with the intention
to activate the spores
unfortunately parks had followed her too
and he gets infected
melanie didn't plan for that to happen
as he starts turning
he asks her to shoot him before he
becomes one of them later
justino wakes up in the lab protected
from the spores
realizing what has happened with melanie
waiting for her outside the lab
in the final moments of the film justina
was woken up by melanie
sometime has clearly passed she take out
a whiteboard with her and starts a class
with the zombie children listening to
her from the other
side of the lab window melanie is their
leader now and they all attend miss
justino's lessons together
make sure to subscribe and turn on
notifications so you can watch more
videos like this
thanks for watching